
Nutrition assistant Application


INTRODUCTION:
     Nutrition is defined as the processes by which an animal or plant takes in and utilizes food substances. Essential nutrients include protein, carbohydrate, fat, vitamins, minerals and electrolytes. Normally, 85% of daily energy use is from fat and carbohydrates and 15% from protein.   The required amounts of the essential nutrients differ by age and the state of the body, for example: physical activity, diseases present (e.g. Bones – known as osteoporosis), medications. Nutrition is essential for growth and development, health and wellbeing, eating a healthy diet contributes to preventing future illness and improving quality and length of life. 
     It is critical that nutrients in our body are available in sufficient amounts and in the right proportions. This can be achieved by eating a balanced diet. We must eat a variety of foods, since different foods contain different nutrients in varying amounts. In stressing the importance of variety in our diet, Nutrition Australia encourages all Australians to ensure that their daily diet includes 30 individual foods. This may appear impossible at first thought, but in reality can easily be attained by eating typical diets based on carefully selected foods.
     As in today’s nutrition calculator web application are just calculating the calories of the food. So which is not enough to know that they can eat the food or not. In order to overcome that we are developing the web application which get some data about the user’s current body weight, height and age and we calculate their BMI and suggest that they can eat this food or not and also if they definitely wants to eat the food we can list the suggestion (like do exercise for half an hour and take a walk to 10 minutes etc..,) to burn the calories which is added because of the intake of the food. So this web application which automatically estimates food attributes such as ingredients and nutritional value by classifying the input image of food and suggests some workout measures to lose the added calories into their body by using Clarifai's AI-Driven Food Detection Model for accurate food identification and Food API's to give the nutritional value of the identified food.
     
  
